Episode 7, George.
I woke up in Hotel Paradiskiv – the Paradise Hotel – to find a cockroach crawling over my pillow.
The worst thing was that I was in no way surprised to find it there.
I washed and met Elizabeth in the lobby.
“ Let’s give breakfast a miss,” she suggested.
“I’m guessing the hygiene in the kitchen here is as bad as the hygiene in the rooms.”
“Good call,” I said.
“Let’s head straight out to the Presidential Palace.
Maybe we’ll get fed there.”
We only needed to wait half an hour for a taxi – better than the airport at least.
And it only took one centimetre of notes to reach the palace, a twenty-minute trip.
On the way there, we passed more billboards of Miki, each displaying a slogan.
He still looked young, handsome and confident.
We wondered whether he would be the same Miki we’d known at Hemsworth.
Miki, our friend.
The city of Ankhaz was gloomy and depressing.
It was one large slum, full of Soviet-era tower blocks that had seen better days.
The people looked depressed and downtrodden.
Miki was the president of this?
The tinge of jealousy I was feeling started to fade away.
As we neared the palace, though, we noticed a change.
The streets were clean, there were nice-looking shops and cafes.
There were also soldiers everywhere, the place was teeming with people in military gear.
Finally, we reached the palace.
It was a huge building that dominated everything around it.
Past the gold-plated outer gates, there was a huge statue of an eagle crushing a smaller bird.
The taxi dropped us off outside the inner gates, still a few hundred metres
from the palace doors, and we presented our letters to the soldiers guarding it.
The letter caused quite a kerfuffle, with the soldiers
arguing about it amongst themselves for several minutes.
Finally, one of them spoke to us.
“You are… politician?” he asked.
“No,” I said.
“Friends.”
“Journalist?
Newspaper?”
“No,” I repeated.
“Friends.”
He stared at us for a moment.
“Wait,” he said, finally.
We waited for ten minutes and nothing happened.
Were they waiting for us to get bored and go home?
Finally, Elizabeth had a brainwave.
“I brought some old photos of us and Miki at school.
Let me show them.”
And she took out a photograph of the three of us sitting on the lawn outside Hemsworth.
When she showed it to the soldiers, it jolted them into action.
The senior one briefly scolded the two others before
personally escorting us to the main door of the palace.
The letter and the photo got us past the guards at the door, past the
security inside and finally past the security on the top floor where
we found ourselves seated on plush sofas surrounded by marble and gold.
“I’m General Nabikiv,” a man introduced himself.
“Allow me to get you some tea and breakfast.
President Miki is bowling, but he’ll be back in about half an hour.”
“Bowling?” Elizabeth looked at me.
I knew what she was thinking.
In a country falling to bits, wouldn’t he have more important things to do?